---
meta-title: "Mac Unix | John Vincent"
meta-description: "John Vincent's discussion on Mac Unix"
meta-keywords: "Mac, Unix"

title: "Mac Unix"
subtitle: ""
lead: ""

category: [Mac, Unix]
permalink: /mac/mac-unix/
---

This stuff ends up sprayed everywhere, so let's create a reference document.

<!-- end -->

## Various

Find and delete

```
find . -name ‘*.class' -delete
find . -name “*.class” -exec rm {} \;
```

```
find . -name "*.pdf" -exec chown someuser:somegroup {} \;
```

Find and exclude

```
find . -type f -name "utils.js" ! -path "*/node_modules/*" | more
```

List directories as a tree

```
tree -I node_modules
```

excludes node_modules folder


## Root Alias

Add to `/var/root/.profile`

```
. /Users/jv/Desktop/MyDevelopment/github/repo_shell_scripts/mac/.root_bash_profile
```

where `.root_bash_profile`

```
#!/bin/bash
#

echo "Running /Users/jv/Desktop/MyDevelopment/github/repo_shell_scripts/mac/.root_bash_profile"

lf() { ls -FaC $*; }

alias ls='ls -GFh'
```

Use

```
sudo su -
```

## What is my IP?

```
dig @ns1.google.com -t txt o-o.myaddr.l.google.com +short
dig -4 @ns1-1.akamaitech.net -t a whoami.akamai.net +short
dig -4 @resolver1.opendns.com -t a myip.opendns.com +short
```

## Add SSH keys

```
cd
cd .ssh
```

`ls` to list keys

```
ssh-add -k id_digital_ocean
ssh-add -k id_github
```


## Terminal

New Tab `Command T`

To auto complete

```
cd abc<tab>
```

Move forward / backward one word

```
opt left arrow, right arrow.
```

Beginning of line

```
ctrl A
```

end of line

```
ctrl E
```

clear screen

```
ctrl k
```

## Finder

Rename a folder:
Click the folder and hold over it.
Name will become editable.

New Tab; `Command T`

New Window; from anywhere, `Command N`

## Disk Space

```
find . -name “node_modules" -print
find . -type d -name "node_modules" -exec rm -rf '{}' +
```

Since 30 days ago

```
find . -mtime -30 -name "*.js" -exec ls -l {} \;
```

## Screen Saver

Control + Shift + Eject or Power

## Shutdown

Command + Shift + Eject or Power


## Screen Snapshot

* Full screen: Command Shift 3
* Partial screen: Command Shift 4

Save .png file to desktop.

Can drag and drop into Evernote.

## Record Screen

`Shift + Command + 5`

## Multiple Desktops

* F3 (desktops)
* Mouse to top right
* Plus sign appears
* Click it

## Remove Desktop

* F3 (desktops)
* hover over desktop
* X appears top left
* Click it

## Move to Another Desktop

* F3 (desktops)
* Drag window to the desktop

## Add a Desktop

* F3 (desktops)
* Far right, a + will appear
* Click it to add a desktop

## Network Utility

* `Command+Spacebar` to summon Spotlight 
* type "Network Utility" followed by the return key to launch the Network Utility app

## Mac Quarantine

jar files downloaded from the internet are automatically set to quarantine.

To see this

```
xattr -l file
```

To clear this

```
xattr -d com.apple.quarantine my_jar.jar
xattr -dr
```

## Show Hidden Files

* Terminal
* defaults write com.apple.finder AppleShowAllFiles YES
* killall Finder

## Enable Zoom

* Apple, System Preferences
 * Accessibility

Notice

* Toggle zoom: Shift Command 8
* Zoom out: Shift Command +
* Zoom in: Shift Command -

## Open Ports

```
lsof -i | grep LISTEN
```

## Evernote Mac Keys

Paste as Plain Text: Command Shift V


## Make a Spec

* Make screen shots and save to desktop.
* Using Paint X Lite,
* Drag images to extra large canvas, re-align them and save as .png to desktop.

* Start Skitch
	* New file (Screen Snap, Blank)
	* Drag the image onto Skitch

Now can add text etc.

Save in Skitch (Evernote).


## Combine PDFs with Brother Printer/Scanner

* Arrange pages in order.
* Place in feed print side up and top of document towards to the feeder.

Open Control Center
* Scan
* File
* Check; Continuous Scanning
* Start Scanning - will scan all the pages
* Finish

The PDF is created on the desktop.

## LibreOffice ODT to PDF

```
libreoffice --headless --convert-to pdf *.odt
```

or

* Open with LibreOffice
* Export
	* Pdf

## Connect to Windows

For example, connect to remote windows host `gamma`

* open terminal
* cd /etc
* sudo vi /etc/hosts
* add ip to gamma

Should now be able to ping.

* Open new Finder Windows
* Finder menu
* Go
* Connect to Server
	* smb://gamma/

Should now connect to server, now authenticate

* connect as: registered user
* name: john
* password: 

Will show volumes to mount

* mount as neeeded

# Format USB Stick

Applications, Utilities, Disk Utility

* Select Device
* Erase

This should work. 

If get error

```
Couldn't modify partition map
```

find the path of the USB

```
diskutil list
```

and erase the USB device `/dev/disk5`

```
diskutil eraseDisk ExFAT USBNAME /dev/disk5
```

# Archived

### Mac Update - check the following

Ethernet connection fails.

Reinstall

```
/Users/jv/Desktop/MyDownloads/mac/AX88179_178A_Macintosh_10.6_to_10.12_Driver_Installer_v2.8.0_20161108/AX88179_178A.dmg
```

Install and restart.
